Using a GlobusApp example doc (#1013)
globus/globus-sdk-python: docs/experimental/examples/oauth2/globus_app.rst

.. _using_globus_app:

.. py:currentmodule:: globus_sdk.experimental.globus_app

Using a GlobusApp
=================

Programmatic communication with Globus services relies on the authorization of requests.
Management and resolution of this authorization can become an arduous task, especially
when a script needs to interact with different services each carrying an individual set
of complex auth requirements. To assist with this task, this library provides a utility
construct called a GlobusApp.

A :py:class:`~GlobusApp` is a distinct object which will manage auth requirements

> (i.e. **scopes**) identified by their associated service (i.e. **resource server**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(i.e., **scopes**) identified by their associated service (i.e., **resource server**).
```

Does GlobusApp provide any special handling vis-a-vis session-related issues today?  I don't believe so, but want to double check, as scopes/consents are only one dimension of auth requirements.

Author: It allows you to provide them on explicit login requests but not in the same way that scopes are managed, I'll sstick with `i.e.` for now.

Also, I know you're right so I'll fix it but I'd like to register my disdain for the period followed by the comma in `i.e.,`

In addition to storing these requirements, a GlobusApp provides a mechanism to resolve
unmet ones through browser and api-based auth flows, supplying the resulting tokens to
bound clients as requested.

There are two flavors of GlobusApp:

*   :py:class:`~UserApp`, a GlobusApp for interactions between an end user and Globus

>     services. Facilitates interactions *on behalf of a user*.

Reviewer: "On behalf of a user" feels a bit fuzzy, as an application could use a service account to do something on my behalf. One thought:

```suggestion
    services. Operations will be performed as the *user's identity.*.
```

*   :py:class:`~ClientApp`, a GlobusApp for interactions between a client

>     (i.e. service account) and Globus services. Facilitates interactions
>     *as the script itself*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    (i.e., service account) and Globus services. Operations will be performed
    as the *client's own identity*.
```

Setup
-----

A GlobusApp is heavily configurable object. For common scripting usage however,
instantiation only requires two parameters:

> #.  **App Name** - A human readable slug to identify your app in http requests and token

Author: The regex you described is not required but it is recommended.

We'll be using this to generate a file name so I'd trying to push users in the direction of "my-cool-app" instead of "My App".

> #.  **App Name** - A human readable slug to identify your app in http requests and token

Reviewer 2: If the user selects an in-memory token store, is that still a consideration?

My assumption here is that it's more important how this appears in the Web App when consenting to things, so I'd prefer to slugify the app name when creating a file-backed token store, but not use the word "slug" here.

> #.  **App Name** - A human readable slug to identify your app in http requests and token

Author: If a user provides their own instantiated token storage, in-memory or not, this value is unused.

At this point we're debating behavior though not documentation.
Can we remove this from the documentation PR & discuss out-of-band whether to make the change you're suggesting?

    caches.

#.  **Client Info** - either a *Native Client's* ID or a *Confidential Client's* ID and
    secret pair.

    *   There are important distinctions to consider when choosing your client type; see
        `Developing an Application Using Globus Auth <https://docs.globus.org/api/auth/developer-guide/#developing-apps>`_.

        For a simplified heuristic however:

        *   Use a *Confidential Client* when your client needs to own cloud resources
            itself and will be used in a trusted environment where you can securely
            hold a secret.

        *   Use a *Native Client* when your client will be facilitating interactions
            between a user and a service, particularly if it is bundled within a
            script or cli tool to be distributed to end-user's machines.

..  Note::

    Even in the context of a UserApp, client info is required to interact with a
    service. Those interactions will be performed on behalf of a user instead of the

>     client itself, but the client is necessary to facilitate the interaction.

Author: The note is meant to highlight that despite these things being called a `UserApp` and a `ClientApp` both require a client, not just the one called `ClientApp`.

Reworded & indented to try to clarify this.

> Once instantiated, an app can be passed to any service client using the init

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once instantiated, a GlobusApp can be passed to any service client using the init
```

``app`` kwarg (e.g. ``TransferClient(app=my_app)``). Doing this will bind the app to the
client, registering a default set of scopes requirements for the service client's
resource server and configuring the app as the service client's auth provider.

..  tab-set::

    ..  tab-item:: UserApp

>         Construct a UserApp then bind it to a transfer client and a flows client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Construct a UserApp, then bind it to a Transfer client and a Flows client.
```

            my_app = UserApp("my-user-app", client_id=CLIENT_ID)

            transfer_client = globus_sdk.TransferClient(app=my_app)
            flows_client = globus_Sdk.FlowsClient(app=my_app)

    .. tab-item:: ClientApp

        Construct a ClientApp then bind it to a transfer client and flows_client.

        ..  Note::

            ``ClientApp.__init__(...)`` does not allow omission of the `client_secret`
            kwarg as native clients are not allowed.

        ..  code-block:: python

            import globus_sdk
            from globus_sdk.experimental.globus_app import ClientApp

            CLIENT_ID = "..."
            CLIENT_SECRET = "..."
            my_app = ClientApp("my-client-app", client_id=CLIENT_ID, client_secret=CLIENT_SECRET)

            transfer_client = globus_sdk.TransferClient(app=my_app)
            flows_client = globus_sdk.FlowsClient(app=my_app)

Usage
-----

From this point, the app manages scope validation, token caching, and authorizer
supply for any the clients it is bound to.

In the above example, listing a client's or user's flows becomes as simple as:

..  code-block:: python

    flows = flows_client.list_flows()["flows"]

> If cached tokens are missing, expired, or otherwise insufficient (e.g. the first time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If cached tokens are missing, expired, or otherwise insufficient (e.g., the first time
```

you run the script), the app will automatically initiate an auth flow to acquire new

> tokens. For a UserApp, this will print out a URL to terminal with a prompt instructing a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tokens. For a UserApp, this will print a URL to the terminal with a prompt instructing
```

the user to follow the link and enter the code they're given back into the terminal. For
a ClientApp, the app will retrieve tokens programmatically through an Auth API.

Once this auth flow has finished, the app will cache tokens for future use and
invocation of your requested method will proceed as expected.

Manually Running Login Flows
----------------------------

While your app will automatically initiate and oversee auth flows as detected, sometimes

> the programmer knows timing better. To manually trigger a login flow, call

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an author may want to explicitly control when an authorization occurs. To manually trigger a login flow, call
```

> ``GlobusApp.run_login_flow(...)``. This will initiate a flow requesting new tokens

Reviewer 2: Above, the phrase "auth flow" is used; I recommend using that phrasing consistently.

```suggestion
``GlobusApp.run_login_flow(...)``. This will initiate an auth flow requesting new tokens
```

> based on the app's currently defined scope requirements, caching the resulting tokens

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
based on the app's currently defined scope requirements, and caching the resulting tokens
```

for future use.

This method accepts a single optional parameter, ``auth_params``, where a caller
may specify additional session-based auth parameters such as requiring the use of an

> mfa token or rendering with a specific message:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MFA token or rendering with a specific message:
```

..  code-block:: python

    from globus_sdk.experimental.auth_requirements_error import GlobusAuthorizationParameters

    ...

    my_app.run_login_flow(
        auth_params=GlobusAuthorizationParameters(
            session_message="Please authenticate with MFA",
            session_required_mfa=True,
        )
    )

Manually Defining Scope Requirements
------------------------------------

> Globus service clients all maintain as a part of their class definition a list of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Globus service clients all maintain an internal list of
```

> default scope requirements to be attached to any bound app. These scopes represent our
> best approximation of a "standard set" for this service; unfortunately however,
> this list will note be sufficient for all use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
default scope requirements to be attached to any bound app. These scopes represent an
approximation of a "standard set" for each service; however,
this list will not be sufficient for all use cases.
```

For example, the FlowsClient defines its default scopes as ``flows:view_flows`` and
``flows:run_status`` (read-only access). These scopes will not be sufficient for a
script which needs to create new flows or modify existing ones. For that script, the
author must manually attach the ``flows:manage_flows`` scope to the app.

This can be done in one of two ways:

#.  Through a service client initialization, using the ``app_scopes`` kwarg.

    ..  code-block:: python

        from globus_sdk import Scope, FlowsClient

        FlowsClient(app=my_app, app_scopes=[Scope(FlowsClient.scopes.manage_flows)])

    This approach results in an app which only requires the ``flows:manage_flows``

>     scope. Neither default scope (``flows:view_flows`` and ``flows:run_status``) are
>     registered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    scope. The default scopes (``flows:view_flows`` and ``flows:run_status``) are
    not registered.
```

#.  Through a service client's ``add_app_scope`` method.

    ..  code-block:: python

        from globus_sdk import Scope, FlowsClient

        flows_client = FlowsClient(app=my_app)

>         flows_client.add_app_scope(Scope(FlowsClient.scopes.manage_flows))

Reviewer 2: It feels very unnecessary that the "clearly already a scope" thing, which is being passed to something that "clearly wants a scope", has to be wrapped in a `Scope` object.

Is this strictly necessary today? Could it instead be:

```suggestion
        flows_client.add_app_scope(FlowsClient.scopes.manage_flows)
```

If so, that's what I want to see here.

``app`` keyword argument (e.g. ``TransferClient(app=my_app)``). Doing this will bind the
app to the client, registering a default set of scopes requirements for the service
client's resource server and configuring the app as the service client's auth provider.

..  tab-set::

    ..  tab-item:: UserApp

        Construct a UserApp then bind it to a Transfer client and a Flows client.

        ..  Note::

            ``UserApp.__init__(...)`` also accepts a `client_secret` keyword argument
            which must be supplied for confidential clients.

        ..  code-block:: python

            import globus_sdk
            from globus_sdk.experimental.globus_app import UserApp

            CLIENT_ID = "..."
            my_app = UserApp("my-user-app", client_id=CLIENT_ID)

            transfer_client = globus_sdk.TransferClient(app=my_app)
            flows_client = globus_Sdk.FlowsClient(app=my_app)

    .. tab-item:: ClientApp

        Construct a ClientApp, then bind it to a Transfer client and a Flows client.

        ..  Note::

            ``ClientApp.__init__(...)`` requires the `client_secret` keyword argument.

>             Native clients, which lack secrets, are not allowed.

Reviewer 2: Should this read "Native client IDs, which lack..."?

```suggestion
            Native client IDs, which lack secrets, are not allowed.
```

Author: I don't think so, no.

You're not allowed to use native clients in a ClientApp. The client ID is the identifier for that native client that you aren't allowed to use.

invocation of your requested method will proceed as expected.

Manually Running Login Flows
----------------------------

While your app will automatically initiate and oversee auth flows as detected, sometimes
an author may want to explicitly control when an authorization occurs. To manually
trigger a login flow, call ``GlobusApp.run_login_flow(...)``. This will initiate an auth
flow requesting new tokens based on the app's currently defined scope requirements, and
caching the resulting tokens for future use.

This method accepts a single optional parameter, ``auth_params``, where a caller
may specify additional session-based auth parameters such as requiring the use of an
MFA token or rendering with a specific message:

..  code-block:: python

    from globus_sdk.experimental.auth_requirements_error import GlobusAuthorizationParameters

    ...

    my_app.run_login_flow(
        auth_params=GlobusAuthorizationParameters(
            session_message="Please authenticate with MFA",
            session_required_mfa=True,
        )
    )

Manually Defining Scope Requirements
------------------------------------

> Globus service client classes all maintain internal list of default scope requirements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Globus service client classes all maintain an internal list of default scope requirements
```

to be attached to any bound app. These scopes represent an approximation of a
"standard set" for each service. This list however is not sufficient for all use cases.

For example, the FlowsClient defines its default scopes as ``flows:view_flows`` and
``flows:run_status`` (read-only access). These scopes will not be sufficient for a
script which needs to create new flows or modify existing ones. For that script, the
author must manually attach the ``flows:manage_flows`` scope to the app.

This can be done in one of two ways:

#.  Through a service client initialization, using the ``app_scopes`` kwarg.

    ..  code-block:: python

>         from globus_sdk import Scope, FlowsClient
> 
>         FlowsClient(app=my_app, app_scopes=[Scope(FlowsClient.scopes.manage_flows)])

Reviewer 2: I'm assuming that this can drop the `Scope` instantiation, too.

```suggestion
        from globus_sdk import FlowsClient

        FlowsClient(app=my_app, app_scopes=[FlowsClient.scopes.manage_flows])
```

Author: This one actually can't.

Maybe it should be able to, but for now it can't.

Author: > Maybe it should be able to, but for now it can't.

This is mean btw in a similar vein as the slug comment above. I'd like to discuss that behavior outside of a documentation PR. We can discuss the merits of adding that and update documentation after adding that behavior if we decide to; I don't want to block this documentation from going out on that decision though.

    This approach results in an app which only requires the ``flows:manage_flows``
    scope. The default scopes (``flows:view_flows`` and ``flows:run_status``) are not
    registered.

#.  Through a service client's ``add_app_scope`` method.

    ..  code-block:: python

>         from globus_sdk import Scope, FlowsClient

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        from globus_sdk import FlowsClient
```
